Welcome to MKBtt!

----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                COMPILATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Before compiling, check if you have at least
 - ocaml 3.10
 - camlidl 1.05
 - yices 1.11 headers and libs

The following things may already be available on your machine:
 - gcc-c++ (provides g++ 4.4.4)
 - zlib-devel 
 - glibc-static 2.12-1(if you compile static)

To compile the libraries, type

 $ make libs

Afterwards, to compile MKBtt execute

 $ make

To run MKBtt, you may e.g. type 

 $ ./mkbtt groups.trs

----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 USAGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following paragraphs describe the command-line interface of mkbTT. 
The comman
 ./mkbtt <file> <options> 
calls mkbTT on a given file. Supported formats for input problems are

    * the trs format used in TPDB up to version 5.*
      (see http://www.lri.fr/~marche/tpdb/format.html)
    * the newer xml format used in TPDB from version 7.* onwards
      (see http://www.termination-portal.org/wiki/TPDB), and
    * the TPTP3 format
      (see http://www.cs.miami.edu/~tptp/TPTP/SyntaxBNF.html)

Possible options include the following:


GENERAL

The global time limit is given by -t <seconds>. To control the output, 
use -st, -ct and -p to obtain some statistics, the completed system, 
and a proof of the saturation, respectively. The flag -h displays the 
list of possible options and -v <n> controls the verbosity, where <n> 
is a value between 0 and 3. Using -ch <file> a rewrite system can be 
supplied to check whether it completes the theory. The settings for 
termination checks have to be specified as described below.

COMPLETION MODES

Ordered completion can be applied via -o, normalized completion via -n.

TERMINATION CHECKS

By default, termination checks are performed internally using TTT2. 
The applied termination techniques can be controlled with the option 
-s <strategy>, specifying a strategy in the TTT2 language. Alterna-
tively, termination can be checked externally if a suitable script is 
supplied using the option -tp <script>. The script is supposed to be 
executable from the current directory and it has to be compatible with 
the following minimal interface:
<script> <file> <timeout> is supposed to check termination of a given 
system in TPDB format and print YES on the first line of standard 
output if termination could be established. The parameter <timeout> 
specifies a time limit in seconds for a termination check (if it is 
ignored mkbTT just kills the process). Here are examples for such 
scripts calling AProVe and muterm.
With both internal and external termination, the time limit for each 
termination check is specified by -T <seconds> .


NODE SELECTION

To control the selection of nodes, the option -ss <strategy> allows to 
supply a selection strategy in mkbTT's strategy language. Predefined 
strategies are 'max', 'slothrop' and 'sum'. The max strategy is used 
by default.


TERM INDEXING

The term indexing technique used for variant and encompassment 
retrievals in rewrite inferences can be specified via -ix <technique>, 
where 'nv' corresponds to naive search in lists, 'pi' corresponds to 
path indexing, 'dt' specifies discrimination trees and 'ct' 
abbreviates code trees (the latter is applied by default). Besides, 
an indexing technique for the retrieval of unifiable terms in deduce 
steps can be specified via the option -ui <technique>. Here applicable 
techniques include all of the above except code trees.

CRITICAL PAIR CRITERIA

By adding the flag -cp <cpc> a critical pair criterion can be selected 
where <cpc> can be 'none' or have one of the values 'prime', 
'blocked', 'connected' or 'all', denoting the criteria PCP, BCP, CCP 
and all as outlined in the papers.

ISOMORPHISMS

The option -is <iso> is used to control process isomorphisms, where 
<iso> may take the values 'rename' or 'rename+' to incorporate 
checking for renamings, 'perm' or 'perm+' to check for argument 
permutations, 'none' to suppress isomorphism checks or 'auto' to 
heuristically choose a possibly applicable isomorphism at the 
beginning of a run (the latter is used by default). A trailing + 
indicates that checks are repeatedly performed in every iteration, and 
not just when a process is split. 

CERTIFICATION

mkbTT can output XML proofs in CP format
(see http://cl-informatik.uibk.ac.at/software/cpf/) which can be
certified by CeTA (see http://cl-informatik.uibk.ac.at/software/ceta/).
To this end, the script callcertify needs to be modified to output a 
certifiable termination proof. 
To obtain a certifiable completion proof, one can call mkbTT with option
-cert as follows:
 $ ./mkbtt input/kb/slothrop_equiv_proofs_or.trs -cert > proof.xml
 $ ceta proof.xml

In ordered completion mode, mkbTT can produce certifiable entailment
(dis)proofs using -cert and -p <format>, where <format> is one of
cpfconv (for conversions), cpfsub (for subsumption proofs with history),
or cpftree (for equational proof trees):
 $ ./mkbtt -o -cert -p cpfsub input/easy/GRP022-2.tptp > proof.xml
 $ ceta proof.xml
The format of disproofs is ndependent of the choice of <format>, e.g. in
 $ ./mkbtt -o -cert -p cpfsub input/easy/BOO027-1.tptp > proof.xml
 $ ceta proof.xml

mkbTT has also some very basic theorem proving feature in normalized
completion mode. For instance, CeTA certifies the following entailment 
proof:
 $ ./mkbtt -n -cert -p cpfsub input/certification/groups0.tptp -s acrpo > proof.xml
 $ ceta proof.xml
Please note that certification of entailment proofs requires CeTA >= 2.18.

SPECIAL FEATURES

mkbTT now (experimentally) supports pre-orientation of some equations.
For this purpose, please create a file in TPDB format describing a 
relative termination problem. For all strict rules the given 
orientation is kept, while all weak rules are considered as equations
and treated as usual input equalities. Note that mkbTT fails if
termination of preoriented equations cannot be shown with the selected
termination tool or strategy.


For further information, please have a look at mkbTT's website:
http://cl-informatik.uibk.ac.at/software/mkbtt

If you have any further questions please contact
sarah.winkler@uibk.ac.at
